|key|value|
|-----------|-----------|
|title|That time my Discord server has been raided because of a dumb mistake.|
|author|PilotAlex|
|date|24/09/2022|
|description|I used to have a Discord server a little while ago with my friends, it was a private server with only 4-5 people in it. But things started to get messy when I developed a Discord bot that leaked our server secret key.|
|tags|Discord;Server;Bot;JavaScript|
|thumbnail|https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/26492485?s=200&v=4|

## The begining
Everyone makes mistakes right? Well, I once made a big mistake, let me explain what happened to my Discord server in this post.
This happened in 2020, I had a discord server that was used to talk with some of my friends. 5 people were in the server.
And as a developer, I wanted to create a Discord server bot using JavaScript/NodeJs. So I started to look at some tutorials, create my Discord dev account, got my keys and started to code.
The library I used was DiscordJS. It was great and easy.

## First error...
This is where I will make my first big mistake, coding the bot in an online public code editor. Something similar to Repl.it named 'Glitch': https://glitch.com/
Don't ask me why I had this bad idea, I followed a tutorial on creating a Discord bot and the guy used this editor, so I mean...
So what happened is that I hard coded the private bot key in the main file, yep, visible to anyone. It looked like something like this:
```js
const key = 'my-key-was-here';
```
Then I logged the bot using something like:
```js
client.login(key);
```
Then, I hosted my blog on Heroku for free (wich isn't the case anymore 😒). And I let the public code on Glitch.

## The fail
Of course, a little while after my server got raided. Every channels where renamed, then deleted, the server icon picture was changed, messages were deleted, roles too.
Well then I quiclky realised this was because of me/my bot. I eventually decided to delete the server.

## What I could have done
- Don't use a public IDE for coding.
- Use Environment Variables in NodeJs with process.env
```js
TOKEN = 'my-key-here'; // .env file
```
```js
client.login(process.env.TOKEN); // index.js
```
The .env file should be added to the gitignore so it's not pushed to the GitHub repository.

## Wrapping up
Well this was a great learning experience of course, I lost my server but I learnt a lot, and that's the most important thing.